Milgram from cycle Canada magazine and
this weekend is the third round in the
Parks Canada Superbike series for 2010
and I'm riding with the kids in the CBR
125 series and I missed qualifying
actually qualifying was rained out so
they took practice times from the
Thursday but I wasn't here so I'm
starting at the back so today was the
first time I really got to see my lap
times and I'm about three and a half
seconds off pole which puts me about
20th over 30 riders
the challenge in racing a city r125 our
is the lack of power they only make a
book 12 horsepower on the series
dynamometer so what that means for
riders of my size your full-sized adults
we have about a hundred pound weight
disadvantage against some of the kids
we're riding against which means that
I'd like a full-sized Superbike where if
you have a bad line through a corner you
can compensate by it using the throttle
well here there's no hope of that so you
have to run absolutely perfect lines
from the apex to the rumble strips and
that's where CBR 155 is a great learning
tool because it's like World Superbike
as I wrote once with 95 percent less
power
like we're using is a Honda CBR 125 R
it's a street bike sold here in Canada
you're allowed to make only the
specified modifications you can buy the
bike from any dealership and then you
get the racing kit that goes with it
it's mandatory it includes upper fairing
the lower fairing and the tail piece and
they come pre painted so it's real
simple the kit also includes a set of
Pirelli race tires which will last a
whole season no problem frame sliders to
pick protect the bike in the event of a
crash and ELCA Racing shock which is
adjustable for spring preload and
damping on the other side of the bike we
have the race exhaust canister from aero
and then there's also a B kit which is
optional the B kit includes really beefy
set back plates to get you a little bit
more ground clearance with the stock
pegs and an optional countershaft
sprocket as well as a chain fin to
protect your fingers or toes in the
event of a crash you don't have to have
a lot of experience either on the track
or in building the bike if you install
the kit with regular tools and keep your
bike clean you're going to be doing just
fine
we came up with the idea if we could
have a motorcycle it was under five
thousand dollars that kids could raise
you know cheaply and so economically for
the parents as well with with minimal
maintenance and so on then it would you
know attract people to try racing and
grow the grids and of course it's been
three years now and the series is
doubled in size every year and we expect
the final we'll have thirty people in it
which probably makes it the biggest grid
here this weekend so it's probably the
biggest class of motorcycle racing here
we're kind of getting to that point now
where the grids as big as it can be for
for a single class so we've developed a
bit of a mentorship program where you
know we've taken the kids who are at the
top of the one to five class each year I
sort of encouraged them and supported
them a little bit in their next
transition into the amateur ranks and
right now that is into writing six
hundreds the idea being that as they
generate or or graduate from the 600
amateur ranks they'll go into Pro 600
and you know the series will sort of
feed each other
a big part of this was to make people
believe that a CBR 1 to 5 or a 1 to 5 cc
bike if you will was an acceptable bike
meaning it was a cool bike it was a fun
bike it was a bike you wouldn't be
ashamed to be seen on so the important
thing was you know to sort of give it a
bit of street credibility and of course
as a sport bike you know nothing says
credibility like racing because of the
draft you end up in packs so you can
gain positions and lose positions so
quickly that you hardly know which way
you're going sometimes and you think
you're making a move on another rider
but you've got two riders behind you
making a move on you so it's a very
peculiar situation because you really
have no idea what's going on certainly
the most fun I think is that is that it
gives you a sense at a speed that we can
handle going eight riders into a corner
or fanning up six of us to the end of
the straightaways I really want to
fulfill
and it really is you do have to focus so
intently and you really have to trust
your instincts because it happens so
quickly
[Music]
we just finished Saturday CBR 125 race
and I finished 16th I was gritted 28 but
there were some crashes in there but it
was a decent finish what was interesting
is with the time so when you get the
printout for the end of a race it has
the best lap time and I turn a faster
lap than the kid who won but I think
what happened is those of us who were
back in the pack held each other up at
various times but that one lap must have
been a clear lap with a good toe from
another rider in terms of the draft so
tomorrow's goal is to is to get up a
little bit further but it's been great
fun and it's kind of a shame that it
really is just for kids because they
have enough fun
the talk light must work because there's
a really wide open flowing circus the
draft is really important because the
back straightaway is so long that you
could check your email under these
things they are doing what you want to
do is get close to the bike in front of
you and what the first bike goes the
lead bike punches a hole in the air and
the second bike which is hopefully your
bike goes into the draft and you get
sucked up and what you want to do is
just pop out of the draft and use that
suction to flow you by the buddy and
that's one of the great things about
this small capacity racing like this is
that it happens at speeds that we cannot
actually do
you
[Music]